---
layout: post
title:  "Week 3 Cultural Blog - Thoughts on My Thinking Style"
date:   2014-09-01 04:21:04
categories: jekyll update
---
Gregorc Thinking Style

I agree wholeheartedly with my assessed category of "Concrete-random". I do love learning through experimentation, even if it means taking some risks. I need to be aware of the potential downsides of this type so I can mitigate the negatives of a distaste for formal routines, detailed record-keeping, and choosing one answer. That said, like most personality assessments, the borders are nebulous so while it is useful to know what type you are most associated with, it would be foolhardy to think that is the only one that applies.

growth vs. fixed mindset

The idea of a "fixed" as opposed to a "growth" mindset stems from research by psychologist Carol Dweck. Her intriguing studies have shown that people can view their skills as fixed, and seek to maximize the returns from their innate abilities, or can tend toward growth and improving those abilities. This can manifest itself in seeking valuable challenges, but it's important to note that it can also be induced to some extent by researchers' questions. That is, everyone displays traits of each, but especially when going into an undertaking like DBC, it is important to be aware of our tendencies and be in the mindset to get as much out of our work as possible.

I have caught myself at times trying to fly through the challenges, checking boxes towards a delineated goal as opposed to trying to learn as much as possible. It's especially tough since there is so much about development I've yet to learn, so there's no way I could explore everything I wonder about and still complete challenges each week, let alone leave my job on a good note and try to sleep a little. My thinking style also plays into this, since my desire to experiment can sometimes take longer than following a recipe to a T, even if it ultimately produces better understanding. So like anything else, I'll have to use all available knowledge to try to balance as best I can.